Architecture Template Page

Instructions
Getting Started

Use this document template to build the  architectur


1. Purpose
2. Business Context
3. Application
4. Data 
6. Environments & Deployment
7. Resiliency
8. Security Context
9. Observability
10. DevOps, Test and Build Architecture 
11. Tech Debt, MSIs & Exceptions
12. References


Data Classification	
Release Name*	<<Release Name>>	SOX Relevancy / High Risk	
Release Date*	<<Release Date>>	NPI	
Business Owner	
Recovery Group / Priority	
 
1. Purpose
Explain the purpose and intent of this asset which is to be designed/built . 

2. Business Context
2.1. Business Impact: 
Enterprise Capability Model Alignment :: 
Expected Outcomes & Business Value: 
Business Value KPI's (Indicate how to measure provided business value): <<>>

2.2. Enterprise Process Repository information:
Impacted Processes:
Impacted Organizations, Personas and/or Journeys:
Impacted Systems and Data:


3. Application
Provide Target State Context
List software and servers 
Estimated traffic (i.e. bandwidth) expected / increase in hardware usage

3.1 System Information
Legacy Asset (Name / Asset ID)
Cloud Asset ID 
Confirm Updated to Reflect Documented Design: 	
Expected Life of Application:	<< Temporary or Long Term>>

3.2 Supporting Technologies & Related Patterns
#	
Shared Services / Technologies 

(Use Technical Capabilities Master List) 

#	Approved Patterns/Reference Architectures:
#	Outstanding Dependencies



3.3 System Boundaries / Context Diagram
In the space that follows, provide an explicit definition of the system’s boundary

3.4 System Boundaries
Includes all components that can affect confidentiality, integrity and availability 
#	
Category
Component
Notes


3.5 Ports & Protocols
The table below lists the ports, protocols and services enabled in this information system. Please indicate the components of the information system that make use of the ports, protocols and services along with their purpose (e.g., system logging, and load balancing etc.). Reference approved pattern:   Model for AWS 2.0 Re-Design

Table with below columns

#	
Port
Protocol
Encryption
Services
Purpose
Approved Pattern #
Source
Destination

4. Data 

Provide a brief description of the business data needs that will be addressed by this business solution.

4.1 Data Flow/Interaction Diagram
Detailed dataflows are required for data-centric solutions

4.2 Dataset Registration
Provide a list of known datasets in scope for the solution.

4.3 Data Exchange 
Interfaces must be fully approved/accepted 

4.4 Attribute Rationalization & Data Model
Data models must be registered and data attributes must be rationalized

5. Interface

5.1 Interfaces
Highlight internal and external application interface dependencies and boundaries.

5.2 API Definitions
If the architecture includes APIs, include information about the APIs being used.

6. Environments & Deployment
Provide a general description of the technical system environment. Include information about all system environments 
that are used, e.g., Production, Acceptance, Development environment etc.   

7. Resiliency
Please be sure to include information for both the  resiliency pattern  and the technology-specific resiliency information.  

Cloud Resiliency Pattern Options: AWS Active-Active, AWS Active-Passive, AWS Active-Standby, AWS Single region 

Link to resiliency patterns and show any deviations from pattern. 

Include relevant architecture diagrams depicting failover and other resiliency related details.


RTO (e.g. 24hr)

RPO (e.g. 15 min)

RTD

RPD

Business Process

Related Recovery Group

Dependencies

List of Hard Dependencies - Consider if this asset has to failover to secondary region, what other assets need to failover.
Known Upstream Dependencies - Consider assets that feed the solution or are inputs to the architecture.
Known Downstream Dependencies - Consider assets that depend on this architecture. 



8. Security Context

Reference all standard security patterns used and show any deviations from patterns

List Network ACL and security 

List Producer and Consumer Roles and cross account trust

List security components for authentication/authorization and encryption (at rest and in transit) at each layer (FMSSO/PING, TLS, Twistlock, s3 encryption)

List security components used for security log delivery and monitoring (e.g. CloudWatch Logs, Splunk)

List security components for secrets and credential management (e.g. AWS Secrets Manager Set-Up pattern)

Include relevant architecture diagrams.

8.1 Identity & Access Management
Describe the roles and types of permissions that will be needed for the application.

#	
Role
Internal or External
Used by
Account Type
(Privileged, Non-Privileged, N/A)
Scope
Authorized Privileges
Functions Performed
Estimated Count

8.2 Credential Management
Describe the user base (internal or external users, or both), authentication credentials used by all system components, 
including Fannie Mae enterprise identity store or non-standard identity store. 
8.3 Access Provisioning
Describe credential and access provisioning and de-provisioning mechanisms.
8.4 Authentication and Authorization
Describe all enforcement points for authentication and authorization. 
8.5 Application Security
Identify the application risk level, programming languages used, web based user interfaces, code review and penetration testing requirements and status. 
8.6 Infrastructure Security
Identify versions of all technical architecture components. Ensure all vulnerabilities are patched and monitored. 
8.7 Data Security
Identify data classification, NPI data, highly restricted data.  Define protection mechanism for data at rest and data in transit. 
8.8 Security Monitoring
Describe the security logging and monitoring requirements and mechanisms. Describe critical logs, location, and critical events that need to be monitored and how they are being monitored. 
8.9 Operations Security
Identify the support teams of the systems and the application tier classification information. Describe the privileges required for operation support, incident response process and any data backup/retention mechanism used
8.10 Application-Specific NIST Controls
8.11 Threat Model Assessment
Ensure a Threat Model of the application has been created 
	
9. Observability

10. DevOps, Test and Build Architecture 
Provide links to DevOps patterns and note any deviations from the pattern.  The patterns should show:

Delivery pipeline diagram

Tools used (bitbucket, gitlab, ucd, jenkins, ecr, dtr, etc)

Delivery pattern requirements (blue/green, canary, etc) 

11. Tech Debt, MSIs & Exceptions
 

12. References
